[Edit] CSS: padding (#6807)
Codecademy/docs: content/css/concepts/padding/terms/padding/padding.md

CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-css'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

The **`padding`** property in CSS Adds  space around an element's content, inside its borders. It is part of the CSS box model, which is fundamental to the layout of web pages. Padding is the space between an element's content and its border, providing visual breathing room that enhances readability and improves the overall aesthetic appeal of the page.

Padding is commonly used to create spacing within elements such as buttons, cards, containers, and text blocks. By controlling the padding on different sides of an element, designers can create balanced layouts, emphasize content, and improve user experience by ensuring adequate spacing between content and container edges.

## Syntax

Padding can be specified using one of the following shorthand notations, depending on the number of sides being targeted:

```pseudo
/* All sides get the same padding */
padding: value;

/* Top and bottom, then left and right */
padding: vertical horizontal;

/* Top, right and left, then bottom */
padding: top horizontal bottom;

/* Top, right, bottom, and left (clockwise) */
padding: top right bottom left;
```

> Value types accepted:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Value types accepted:**
```

In this example, a 20-pixel space is created between the content and the border on all sides of the element with the class "box". The background color extends into the padding area, but stops at the border. This creates a visual buffer around the content, making it easier to read and more visually appealing.

## Example 2: Different Padding for Each Side

This example shows how to set different padding values for each side of an element, creating an asymmetrical layout:

```css
.card {
  /* Order: top right bottom left */
  padding: 25px 15px 35px 15px;
  background-color: white;
  border-radius: 8px;
  box-shadow: 0 2px 4px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
}

/* Alternatively, you could use individual properties: */
.card-alt {
  padding-top: 25px; /* Top padding */
  padding-right: 15px; /* Right padding */
  padding-bottom: 35px; /* Bottom padding */
  padding-left: 15px; /* Left padding */
  /* Other styling properties */
}
```

The output produced by this would be:

![Card with asymmetric padding, white background, rounded corners, and subtle shadow](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/css-padding-output-2.png)

> This example creates a card-like container with more padding on the top and bottom than on the sides. This design pattern is common in cards and content containers where you want more vertical breathing room but need to conserve horizontal space. The example also shows how you can use individual padding properties as an alternative to the shorthand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example creates a card-like container with more padding on the top and bottom than on the sides. This design pattern is common in cards and content containers where more vertical breathing room is desired while conserving horizontal space. The example also demonstrates the use of individual padding properties as an alternative to the shorthand.
```

---
Title: 'padding'

> Description: "Creates space around an element's content, inside of any defined borders."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: "Adds space around an element's content, inside its borders."
```

CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-css'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

The **`padding`** property in CSS Adds  space around an element's content, inside its borders. It is part of the CSS box model, which is fundamental to the layout of web pages. Padding is the space between an element's content and its border, providing visual breathing room that enhances readability and improves the overall aesthetic appeal of the page.

Padding is commonly used to create spacing within elements such as buttons, cards, containers, and text blocks. By controlling the padding on different sides of an element, designers can create balanced layouts, emphasize content, and improve user experience by ensuring adequate spacing between content and container edges.

## Syntax

Padding can be specified using one of the following shorthand notations, depending on the number of sides being targeted:

```pseudo
/* All sides get the same padding */
padding: value;

/* Top and bottom, then left and right */
padding: vertical horizontal;

/* Top, right and left, then bottom */
padding: top horizontal bottom;

/* Top, right, bottom, and left (clockwise) */
padding: top right bottom left;
```

> **Parameters:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.card-alt {
  padding-top: 25px; /* Top padding */
  padding-right: 15px; /* Right padding */
  padding-bottom: 35px; /* Bottom padding */
  padding-left: 15px; /* Left padding */
  /* Other styling properties */
}
```

The output produced by this would be:

![Card with asymmetric padding, white background, rounded corners, and subtle shadow](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/css-padding-output-2.png)

This example creates a card-like container with more padding on the top and bottom than on the sides. This design pattern is common in cards and content containers where you want more vertical breathing room but need to conserve horizontal space. The example also shows how you can use individual padding properties as an alternative to the shorthand.

## Example 3: Responsive Padding with Mixed Units

This example demonstrates how to create responsive padding using a combination of fixed and relative units:

```css
.responsive-container {
  /* Using both percentage and pixel values */
  padding: 2em 5% 2em 5%;

  /* Padding increases as viewport width increases */
  background-color: #e6f7ff;
  border: 1px solid #0099cc;

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}
```

  /* Additional responsive adjustments for smaller screens */
  @media (max-width: 768px) {
    /* Reduce padding on smaller screens */
    padding: 1em 3% 1em 3%;

>   }
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}
```
